We warmly welcome all of you
to JW Broadcasting®!
This month’s theme
is “Imitate Jehovah’s Generosity.”
Our program will bring us closer
to our great God, Jehovah.
Here’s a sample.
What will you do in Paradise?
Some of our young ones share what
they look forward to in the new world
and how their hope draws them to Jehovah.
The book of Hosea
can teach us profound truths
—if we know how to find them.
We’ll explore Hosea together
and learn how to dig for our own treasures.
You Christian sisters
are beautiful examples of compassion,
self-sacrifice, humility,
and so much more.
But at times, some of you may feel
that others don’t notice what you do.
This month’s music video will assure you
that your brothers and sisters love
and appreciate you very much.
There’s much to look forward to
in this edition of JW Broadcasting.
Humans are born
with a strong inclination to imitate.
In fact, very young infants
have been observed
imitating facial expressions.
That’s amazing!
It makes me think of an experience
I had some 40 years ago
when Susan and I were in the circuit work.
A sister told me
that her little five-year-old son
was looking in a mirror
and making various expressions
with his face and eyes.
His mother asked,
“What are you doing?”
He said,
“I can’t do like Brother Lett;
I’ll never be a circuit overseer!”
Well, I’m sure he soon learned
that voluminous facial expressions
are not a requirement for circuit work.
In fact, they could be a disadvantage.
By the way, thank you
for putting up with me all these years.
But how does a small child learn to walk,
feed himself, and talk?
He learns by imitating
his parents and others.
However, there’s one type of imitating
that does not come
automatically or even easily.
It’s identified at Ephesians 5:1.
It says: “Therefore, become
imitators of God, as beloved children.”
Notice the word “become.”
We are not born as “imitators of God.”
Because of inherited imperfection,
we aren’t even born with an inclination
to become an imitator of God.
Genesis 8:21 says:
“For the inclination of the heart of man
is bad from his youth up.”
Therefore, it takes earnest effort
to become an imitator of God.
But it’s well worth the effort,
and Jehovah will help us.
What blessings will we personally reap
if we become an imitator of God?
The greatest blessing
—Jehovah will see that we
are trying to be like him,
and he will love us and draw close to us.
Also, the more we learn about Jehovah
and strive to be like him,
the more we’ll love him
and the closer we’ll draw to him.
Cultivating godly qualities
will result
in improved relations with others.
Imitating godly qualities
will make us a better person overall.
The more we’re like Jehovah,
the happier we’ll be.
That’s how he created us.
Those are just a few
of the blessings we’ll reap
if we become an imitator of God.
In our publications,
more than 40 different qualities of Jehovah
have been identified and discussed.
But in this discussion,
let’s examine just one.
We’ll discuss the theme
“Imitate Jehovah’s Generosity.”
Generosity is an aspect of Jehovah’s love.
Unquestionably, Jehovah God
is the most generous Giver in the universe.
Let’s talk about this.
Eons and eons ago,
Jehovah God was all alone.
And even though it’s impossible
for us to comprehend,
he wasn’t lonely or lacking anything.
But because of love,
he generously chose to share
the gift of life with others.
He decided to become a Father, a Creator.
Logically, he began by creating a Son
with whom He could directly enjoy fellowship.
As we know,
this Son became known as the Word,
as Jehovah’s Spokesman.
But then, at some point in time, again,
not because of loneliness
or lacking anything,
but because of love,
He chose to further expand His family
by creating millions of angelic sons
who could also directly associate with Him.
Then, amazingly,
further down the stream of time,
because of love,
He again chose to expand His family.
These children were a lower form of life
but ones who were made in His image
and whom He loved deeply.
Of course, we’re talking about Adam and Eve
—the original parents of all of us.
If Jehovah had not created them,
none of us would ever have been born.
Yes, life itself
is a wonderful, miraculous,
and generous gift.
Without this gift,
we wouldn’t be able to enjoy any
of Jehovah’s other marvelous blessings.
Let’s now talk about Jehovah’s generosity
when it comes to physical gifts.
“Every good gift and every perfect present
is from above.”
Think for a moment
about the planet we live on.
Jehovah created the earth as a beautiful
and unique home for us.
It has all the right conditions
to sustain life,
including the oxygen and water cycles
that continually recycle essential resources.
If the earth were closer to the sun,
all the water would boil off
and the planet would be a barren rock.
Conversely, if it were farther from the sun,
the water would freeze
and the planet would be like
an uninhabitable iceberg.
Jehovah placed the earth
at the perfect location,
often called the Goldilocks zone.
Think, too, about the marvelous gift
of our human bodies.
Even in our imperfect state,
as mentioned at Psalm 139:14,
we are “wonderfully made.”
Isn’t it brilliant how our skin
is designed to heal when we cut,
scrape, or bruise it?
When we scratch, scrape, or dent our car,
does it heal itself?
Can you imagine
what we would look like if every time
we damaged our skin,
it just stayed that way?
We’d begin to look pretty rough
in just a short period of time.
And isn’t it amazing
how the skin allows water to exit the body
in the form of perspiration?
But at the same time,
it doesn’t allow water to enter into the body
when we take a bath;
otherwise, we’d become waterlogged.
Ponder for a moment about how food
is not only nutritious,
but it’s also delicious.
This makes fueling our bodies very enjoyable.
Jehovah could have made eating
like putting gasoline in a car
—a necessary function
but void of enjoyment.
Think of all the tasty varieties of food.
As just one example,
how many varieties of grapes are there?
According to the Food
and Agriculture Organization,
there are about 10,000
different grape varieties worldwide.
Jehovah could have given us
just two varieties
—red and green.
But why do we have some 10,000 varieties?
Because of Jehovah’s voluminous generosity.
But now we ask,
How can we imitate Jehovah’s generosity
in giving physical gifts?
It’s obvious that Jehovah
has put a lot of thought into his gift-giving
so that his gifts
are practical and beneficial.
Likewise, we should prayerfully meditate
so that our gifts are useful.
Not all gifts are practical.
One brother gave this example:
A puppy might make a fine gift
to a young one living in a rural setting,
but it’s a terrible gift to a Bethelite.
If our brother lacks food,
clothing, or shelter,
we don’t just say:
“Go in peace; keep warm and well fed.”
No, we apply Proverbs 3:27,
which says:
“Do not withhold good from those
to whom you should give it
if it is within your power to help.”
In addition
to helping brothers in need directly,
we can indirectly help them
by making donations to the worldwide work.
The Governing Body
prayerfully strives to use wisely
these precious, dedicated funds
to help our dear brothers
who’ve been afflicted
by natural or man-made disasters
and who urgently need suitable Kingdom Halls
and assistance in many other ways.
Speaking of the need for Kingdom Halls,
as just one example,
please look at these pictures
from the Philippines.
Here are six before and after photographs.
And what do you think
was the individual average cost
for these six new simplified
but dignified Kingdom Halls?
Twenty one thousand U.S. dollars.
Please think about this:
Jehovah’s physical gifts such as the rain,
sunshine, and oxygen are recurring.
What’s one way to imitate
this aspect of Jehovah’s giving?
Well, 1 Corinthians 16:2 says:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means.”
In harmony with this Scriptural principle,
many have chosen
to “set something aside” each month
by scheduling recurring online donations.
But now let’s briefly contemplate
Jehovah’s spiritual gifts,
which are even more impressive.
Think about the Bible.
Where would we be without it?
Lost, hopeless, floundering.
We’d have to learn by experience
—“the school of hard knocks.”
We’d need at least two lives to live
—one to practice
and the second to perform.
Next, think about the holy spirit.
John 14:26 describes it as a helper,
teacher, and a remembrancer.
It is the most powerful force
in the universe,
and Jehovah gives it to us generously.
Consider for a moment the resurrection hope.
It strengthens us in times of great distress
—when death takes a loved one
or when we face death ourselves.
I’m reminded
of the six-year-old girl who said:
‘Thank you, Jehovah,
for the resurrection hope.
It is a very good idea!’
For our final example,
what was Jehovah’s
greatest spiritual gift of generosity?
The gift of his Son
to purchase us from sin and death.
And it wasn’t just any angel
whom Jehovah sent;
it was his Firstborn,
his only-begotten Son.
What if you were tied to a chair
and forced to watch the torture and execution
of your most beloved child?
That would be horrible!
Of course, Jehovah was not tied,
but because of his great love for us,
he restrained himself
and allowed the torture and execution
of his most precious Son.
That is the ultimate example of generosity.
But now we ask,
How can we imitate Jehovah’s generosity
in giving spiritual gifts?
One way is by being generous
in giving sincere commendation.
If you see something good,
say something good.
Proverbs 15:23 says:
“A word spoken at the right time
—how good it is!”
Words have great power.
To illustrate, think of how two words
from a convention chairman
can lift thousands of pounds.
What are they?
“Please stand!”
In this vein, Proverbs 18:21 says:
“Death and life
are in the power of the tongue.”
Just a few words at the right time
can make a tremendous difference
in a person’s life.
They can cause a depressed one to “stand”
with a positive hope for the future.
Another way
is to freely give out forgiveness.
Colossians 3:13 reminds us
that ‘Jehovah freely forgives us’
and that we “must also do the same.”
The word “freely” in English
means “generously”
and can also mean “without charge.”
Is there someone you can extend
true forgiveness to in imitation
of our generous God?
Additionally, how about generously
giving out knowledge?
Do we pray for a Bible study
and then work in harmony with those prayers
by searching diligently for a deserving one?
Do we liberally train others
and share the skills we have in the ministry
and in the maintenance
and construction of theocratic facilities?
People in general often hoard
the knowledge they have
in order to protect their job.
But like Jehovah,
we gladly share the knowledge
we have with others.
During our discussion,
we barely scratched the surface
regarding Jehovah’s generosity
and how we can imitate him.
We will learn forever about our great God
and how we can better reflect his qualities.
But in the meantime,
the more we learn about him
and the more closely we can imitate him,
the richer, happier,
and more satisfying our lives will be.
And why?
Because that’s how he created us.
Another way we imitate Jehovah’s generosity
is by showing hospitality.
Do you sometimes hold back?
Our next segment offers practical suggestions
that can help you.
What mattered most to me
was that everything was just right.
My apartment had to be spotless,
and the dining table had to be full
with different types of food
—completely full.
I was worried
that our apartment wasn’t big enough
to accommodate guests,
not even for a meal.
I was often wondering
if we would have enough time for invitations
or if it would be too stressful.
Before,
my financial situation was much better.
Currently, it’s not good, but I manage.
The brothers and sisters
are such a precious gift from Jehovah.
This is truly the family he gave us.
The brothers and sisters
have shown us so much love,
and I want to do all I can
to express my gratitude.
The best way to do so
is just by spending time together.
We’re happy to take time for our brothers.
So many of the friends live alone
or just want someone to spend time with.
It’s nice when we can show hospitality
in our homes,
but I’ve learned that hospitality
starts in the Kingdom Hall.
After all, Jehovah has invited all of us
to be his guests.
I prefer to stand right by the entrance.
This way I can notice any interested ones
who come to the meetings.
A warm smile shows personal interest
and lets them know
I’m genuinely happy that they’ve come.
Brothers and sisters in the congregation
are my family.
That is why I want to hug them,
kiss them, ask them how they feel.
They should feel happy just as I am.
I’m normally pretty tired after the meeting.
I’ve had a long day and still have
the rest of the week ahead of me,
but that is the case with the others too.
Sometimes there are things
they would like to share.
Taking the time to listen to them
can really make their day.
I planned to invite four to five friends
every other week.
To my great joy,
my plan came true within a year and a half.
Everyone was invited,
and everyone came.
Brothers usually ask me what to bring.
I say: “Don’t bring anything
—just your beautiful smile.
And bring someone who you know very well
but who I don’t know.”
There have been times after the meeting
when we’ve said to each other,
“We just have to invite someone over!”
Then we go around asking people,
sometimes four or more,
until we find someone who has time.
This has led
to so many beautiful moments together.
No one feels pressured
or expects anything extravagant.
Everyone is relaxed,
and it feels like a calm evening with family.
One experience
completely changed my view of hospitality.
A friend of mine called me and said:
“Hey! I’m close by.
Do you have time?
Can I come over?”
I thought,
‘What am I supposed to cook?’
At that moment, the doorbell rang;
my friend was already there.
The only thing I could think of to cook
was pasta with sauce.
When we sat down to eat,
my friend said to me,
“Stefanie, pasta is my favorite food!”
That was a great moment.
I live a simple life.
To host brothers, I need to spend some money.
However,
there are leaflets with special offers.
I check them to see what’s discounted.
The friends are happy,
and I didn’t spend a lot of money.
We’ve had several brothers
spend the night here.
They come for pioneer school, elders’ school,
and other theocratic projects.
It’s so encouraging
to see their positive attitude
when they come home in the evenings.
It’s priceless.
They’re energized from the school,
and they have so many upbuilding thoughts.
Their positivity is contagious.
Our apartment isn’t very big.
So we wondered
where our guests could sleep.
We decided
to turn the office into a guest room.
We had to move the desk into our room,
but now we have space for an air mattress
for our guests to sleep on.
It’s a great solution.
I take photos of my guests
and stick them into my photo album.
We live in such times
when it’s normal to get sad sometimes.
It happens to me too.
My remedy for sadness
is to take the photos, look at them,
remember our get-togethers,
remember our laughter,
remember the atmosphere we had,
the experiences I heard.
I meditate on them,
and that lifts me up again.
When I see how happy my guests are,
it makes me truly happy.
Spending time together
not only strengthens
our friendships with each other
but also with Jehovah as well.
We live in such insecure times.
We really don’t know what life situations
we will face next.
Not only are we affected by these situations
but others are also.
Making the best
out of the time we have together
helps to build friendships
—strong and meaningful friendships.
There are so many different personalities
in the congregation,
and the time is coming
when it will be essential
for us to stick together.
We will face more and more pressure
in this system of things.
But we will be ever more thankful
for the friendships in the congregation
that can help us to resist this pressure.
Together we are stronger
because we can all support and rely
on each other.
How timely!
That same Watchtower  article
made this point:
“As pressures mount,
“we will need the deepest of love between us
and our brothers and sisters.”
Yes, by generously extending hospitality,
we strengthen the bonds of love among us.
We need that close bond
with our brothers and sisters,
especially when we suffer a painful,
unexpected tragedy.
Marcela, Maythe, and Jacky
faced such a crisis.
As we hear their story,
notice how their strong faith helped them
and their family endure.
I’m from Colombia.
I have five more sisters.
I learned the truth from a very young age
through my parents.
It was a very active spiritual life.
My dad lived the truth.
He wasn’t just in the truth;
he lived the truth,
and he always tried to pass that on to us.
He made sure that we never went to school
without reading the day’s text first.
That was essential.
We could be late for school,
but we couldn’t leave the house
without reading the text.
We were a big family,
but we were always at the meeting.
We filled two rows.
He was always concerned
about the well-being of the brothers.
He was always available.
He was very hospitable—my mom as well.
So he used to invite his Bible students
and the brothers to our house,
and I remember that he would
close the kitchen door,
put on some music,
and cook a delicious meal.
He liked to keep everything fun
and for us girls to have fun,
especially when we were together as a family.
He would give each one of us
what we needed and enjoyed.
He used to take us for walks on the weekend
after the meeting and after preaching.
It was a privilege
to have a father like that.
Well, that day I remember
that we were at home.
He was going to put the car in the garage.
Some men came to the car
and threatened him and my mom
with machine guns
to get him out of the car to kidnap him.
We heard a noise.
We all got scared and ran outside,
and then I remember
that my dad was on the ground,
and some men had shot him.
He was just left there.
I just picked him up in my arms.
He was taken to the hospital,
and a few hours later, he died.
My dad’s last words were:
“Jehovah, protect my daughters.
“Take care of my daughters
and my little old lady”
—that meant my mom.
My mom, she was strong.
She gave us—
She gave us a lot of strength.
And she carried on
with the spiritual routine.
The same week that my dad died,
we had a meeting
and my sister Raquel had a talk.
And even though
my dad had died the day before,
she gave her part in the meeting
the very next day.
That next week we had an assembly;
we didn’t miss it.
So we wanted to follow that pattern
that my dad had left.
It was very difficult and complicated.
But Jehovah always took first place
in all the decisions we made;
they were always made
while thinking of Jehovah
and the loyalty that my dad
always had shown toward him.
I carried on as if he was alive,
trying to keep all my sisters together
and in the truth, you know?
At first, I prayed to Jehovah for peace:
“Give me ‘the peace . . .
that surpasses all understanding.’”
And now when there is
something that is harder,
I say to Jehovah:
“Jehovah, preserve the peace
that you have already given me.
Don’t let this trial take away my peace.”
And that’s when Jehovah strengthens me.
Well, I am very fond of my sisters.
I have a lot of respect for them
because they were like extra mothers to me.
Three of my sisters still live in Colombia,
so we make sure to stay in touch
on the phone or on Zoom.
That way they can see how Mom is doing.
Some of my relatives who are not Witnesses
wanted to have some of my sisters
live with them to finish raising them.
But we didn’t want our family to be split up
because that was not my dad’s plan.
His plan was for all of us
to make it into the new world
serving Jehovah together.
All his efforts, all his life,
and all that he devoted to Jehovah
was not going to be in vain
just because he was no longer with us.
We couldn’t let all that go away.
My dad taught me so many simple things
about creation and about Jehovah
that instilled love for Jehovah in me.
That was something that I didn’t know,
at that time,
was going to help me to move forward.
But then I always say, “Wow!
“Dad’s not here,
but he left me another Father, Jehovah.”
And that’s what has helped me to move on.
In Paradise, what I long for the most
—those last words that he said,
“Jehovah, my wife, my daughters”—
is to be able to say to him:
“Look! Here they are.
We are all here.”
We made it!
You did a good job.
As Maythe said,
their parents truly “lived the truth.”
Their example nurtured in their children
a deep love for Jehovah
and built a sure hope
in the promises to come.
Parents, your efforts to build faith
in your children
can produce a lifetime of benefits.
Listen to what these young ones
say about the Paradise.
In Paradise, everyone is happy.
They have fun,
and it’s a very beautiful place.
You can live forever in Paradise,
so you can become friends
with everyone from all over the world
and become one big family.
In Paradise,
there are mountains,
forests, rivers,
lots of flowers,
and you can hear people singing and laughing.
It’s exciting!
You can’t really go near animals
and play with them now.
But in Paradise,
they won’t hurt you or try to bite you,
so you can play with them and have fun.
I want to have a race with the cheetahs
in the Paradise!
In Paradise,
Satan will be no more,
so fun will continue forever.
“The meek will possess the earth,
“and they will find exquisite delight
in the abundance of peace.”
Now I can recite this scripture by heart.
Right now,
there are a lot of disasters and crimes.
But in Paradise,
there are going to be
lots of good and happy things.
There will be smiles everywhere.
Sophia was imagining
that she was in a garden
full of butterflies.
In Sophia’s imagination about Paradise,
she saw the little Israelite girl
that worked in Naaman’s house
and she played
with a lot of different butterflies.
Caleb and Sophia’s dad
said that it’s good
to picture yourself in Paradise
. . . because you can “rejoice in the hope.”
By thinking about myself
in the beautiful Paradise,
I can be patient during hard times.
I want to live with my family and animals
in a tree house with a swing and a slide.
Here in Paradise, birds are singing happily.
This is me and my family.
I want to meet David.
It’s because I want to know why
he had so much trust in Jehovah
and how he could be so courageous.
I want to meet resurrected Daniel in Paradise
and ask him how he felt
when he was thrown into the lion’s pit.
Jehovah promises
so many fun and happy things.
I think he is a kind God.
Jehovah is really powerful
and has a lot of wisdom,
and he is also kind.
I think he is just really great.
Jehovah never lies,
so all his words come true,
and he is a very loving God.
Jehovah loves you young ones.
He wants you, your family,
and all who love him to be in Paradise.
Learn all you can about the Bible.
And when you do,
you’ll make Jehovah your best Friend.
The Bible is a treasure trove,
but discovering
its spiritual gems takes effort.
To help us develop
good personal study habits,
the Governing Body is pleased to introduce
a new series,
Dig for Treasures.
In our first episode,
we explore the book of Hosea.
The book of Hosea is packed
with spiritual treasure, wouldn’t you say?
Yeah, absolutely.
It reveals aspects of Jehovah’s personality
and his sovereignty,
and there’s so much we can apply ourselves.
We just have to know how
to find the treasure.
In that case,
let’s dig into Hosea.
Love to.
So a good way to start is by watching
the Introduction to Hosea  video.
It gives an overview of the book,
it helps us to understand
the historical context
and, most important,
it shows how it connects to God’s Kingdom.
That’s a great study tip.
Hey, thanks.
The video mentioned
that Hosea’s “career as a prophet
continued for about 60 years”
during a time of great political turmoil
in Israel.
That wouldn’t have been
an easy assignment on its own.
But we can start to dig deeper
by asking some questions.
Asking questions is such a fundamental step
in digging for treasures.
So, for example:
How did Jehovah choose
to start Hosea’s prophetic career?
Hosea 1:2 says:
“Go, marry a woman of prostitution
and have children of prostitution.”
Yeah, can you imagine the first thing
that Jehovah tells you as a prophet
is that he wants you to marry a woman
who’s going to be unfaithful to you?
I wonder how he felt.
What was his initial response?
What went through his mind
knowing that marital infidelity awaited him?
Many who have gone
through that circumstance say that it’s
an excruciating and devastating experience.
Mm-hmm.
But that’s not all.
That verse also mentions
“have children of prostitution.”
So there were children involved.
Hosea and Gomer had a son together,
but later, Gomer had two other children,
likely out of wedlock.
I wonder what that was like for Hosea.
Right?
And if they weren’t his,
when did he find out?
How did he feel
taking care of these children?
There are so many questions we can ask
to make the account real.
Now, I’ve been asked this before,
and I’m sure you have too:
Why would Jehovah ask Hosea
to put himself
in such a painful family situation?
Mm-hmm.
It doesn’t seem right.
How would you respond to that?
Why is such an important question
when we’re digging for treasures.
So think about it:
Jehovah really told him why
in that same verse where he commissioned him:
“Because by prostitution
the land has turned completely away
from following Jehovah.”
The All Scripture  book says:
“Israel had been to Jehovah
“like a wife who had become unfaithful,
“committing fornication.
“Yet he would show his love for her
“and try to recover her.
“Hosea’s wife, Gomer,
could accurately illustrate this.”
So by having Hosea experience
something similar
to what Jehovah was going through
with Israel,
Hosea could better empathize
and communicate
how deeply the people had hurt Jehovah.
Yeah, I can only imagine the weight
that gave to Hosea’s words.
Mm-hmm.
Now, here is the big question:
What does this reveal
about Jehovah’s personality?
What stands out to you?
Here’s something surprising
about this account:
how Jehovah told Hosea to take Gomer back.
Hosea 3:1 says:
“Go once again,
“love the woman who is loved by another man
“and is committing adultery,
“just as Jehovah loves the people of Israel
while they turn to other gods.”
Hosea taking Gomer back
wasn’t to be mechanical.
Jehovah told Hosea to love this woman again.
Yeah, that’s a much different response
than simply pretending everything is OK.
That’s restoration.
So it shows
that even though Jehovah was deeply hurt,
he still loved Israel
and wanted them to return
and not just out of obligation.
He wanted to restore
that loving, intimate relationship.
That’s Jehovah’s loyal love.
What a glimpse into Jehovah’s personality
and, really, his sovereignty!
He is not only loyal,
but he is a God of loyal love.
Outstanding.
OK, so the next step: Make it personal.
The study tips
on the back of The Watchtower  suggest
to identify lessons and apply them.
So, what’s the takeaway?
Disloyalty causes Jehovah so much pain,
but the opposite is also true.
When we imitate Jehovah’s loyal love,
he must be so pleased.
So when we do our best to maintain
a loving atmosphere in our marriage
even though it isn’t easy
or if we feel mistreated
and when we are loyal
to our brothers and sisters
and work to restore a damaged relationship
even when they hurt us,
we make Jehovah happy.
Yeah, we’re imitating him.
It’s not mechanical;
it’s an act of loyal love.
We don’t just forgive; we love.
Another takeaway:
Maybe we’ve hurt Jehovah
by our actions in the past.
Those memories may stay with us
even if we’ve repented
and gained forgiveness.
We might find it hard to forgive ourselves.
But that’s not how Jehovah wants us to feel.
Just like with the Israelites,
he still wants to be our God and assures us
of his forgiveness and loyal love.
Remembering this account can give us peace
when we’ve made a mistake.
Look at what we can find
with just a few steps:
getting an overview
from the Introduction  video,
asking questions
to dig into the details and context,
looking for what it teaches us
about Jehovah’s personality,
and then making it personal.
The book of Hosea is packed with such gems.
And we didn’t even dig everything
out of those verses.
Why did Jehovah require Hosea
to pay to buy Gomer back?
What do the names of the children reveal
about Jehovah?
Why did Jehovah hold out a hope
of a future king from David’s line?
How can I imitate Hosea’s example
of accepting challenging assignments?
There is still so much there.
Then let’s keep going.
There’s no end to the treasure we can find
in the book of Hosea.
When we dig for treasures,
we immerse ourselves
in the lives of people like us,
we witness Jehovah’s qualities in action,
and what we learn
we can apply in our daily lives.
In future episodes,
we’ll dig into Amos, Micah, Habakkuk,
and other Bible books sometimes called
the “minor prophets.”
We hope this new series
inspires and equips you
to discover treasures
in your personal studies.
We make Jehovah happy
when he sees us doing our best to serve him.
What are other benefits of knowing
that Jehovah sees all the good we do?
That question is answered
in this Morning Worship talk
presented by Brother John Ekrann.
So how can we benefit
from knowing that Jehovah sees
all the good that we do?
Our friends, our workmates, and family
—they see some of the good that we do.
But no friend, relative, or even mate
can see all the good that we do.
But Jehovah does:
when we defend a friend
who isn’t there to defend themselves,
or we resisted a temptation,
or our prayers for others
that only Jehovah knows about.
Fortunately, we don’t have to report
every good deed to Jehovah
and list in our prayers at night
all the good things that we did that day.
We’re content with knowing
that Jehovah saw them all
and was pleased with us.
Jesus was content
with knowing that Jehovah saw
and was pleased with what he was doing.
If we look at John 8:29,
John 8:29,
he says:
“And the One who sent me is with me;
“he did not abandon me to myself,
because I always do the things
pleasing to him.”
So Jesus knew that he was not alone
in seeing the good things that he was doing,
even if he was falsely accused
or his opposers lied about him.
He knew that he was doing the things
that were pleasing to Jehovah.
Well, what lesson is there for us in that?
It’s very comforting.
Jehovah sees all the good that we do,
and nothing good that we do
is missed by him.
Well, how can knowing
that Jehovah sees all the good that we do
help us when we’re falsely accused?
“This is what you said.”
“No, I didn’t say that.”
You sometimes wish you had a recording
or you could go back in time.
But sometimes, of course,
it doesn’t make a difference
no matter what you say.
Think of how Mephibosheth may have felt
when slandered by Ziba to King David.
Do you think Mephibosheth wished
he had an eyewitness or a recording?
You know, to kind of illustrate
the power of an eyewitness,
I want you to imagine a traffic accident.
You’re just sitting at a stop sign
and another car comes around the corner
and runs right into you.
Now, when the police come,
shockingly, the person who ran into you
says that you ran into them,
and the police believe them.
You take the matter to court.
The judge listens as the other person
testifies in detail how you ran into them.
But before you can say anything,
the judge says:
“No, that is not what happened.
“I was walking on the sidewalk that day,
and I saw the whole thing.”
Now, who would imagine
that the judge in your case
actually was an eyewitness?
You say to yourself,
‘Well, if I had known that,
‘I wouldn’t have been so worried
about what was going to happen
in court today.’
Now, while it’s extremely unlikely
that you’re going to go to court
and the judge
is going to be an eyewitness for you,
this does illustrate the peace of mind
that we can have in knowing
that Jehovah is an eyewitness
to all that happens.
So the lesson for us:
When we’re falsely accused,
it is of great comfort for us to know
that Jehovah was there that day
and saw the whole thing.
Now, knowing that Jehovah sees
all the good that we do
can also help us avoid putting on a pretense.
Jehovah is not fooled by people
who do good deeds just to be seen by others.
The Pharisees of Jesus’ day just loved
to put on a pretense of righteousness.
And Jesus tells an illustration
that really exemplified that point,
if we go to Luke chapter 18,
verses 9-14.
That’s Luke 18:9-14.
It says:
“He also told this illustration
“to some who trusted
in their own righteousness
“and who considered others as nothing:
“‘Two men went up into the temple to pray,
“‘the one a Pharisee
and the other a tax collector.
“‘The Pharisee stood
and began to pray these things to himself,
“‘“O God, I thank you
that I am not like everyone else
“‘“—extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers—
“‘“or even like this tax collector.
“‘“I fast twice a week;
“‘I give the tenth of all things I acquire.”
“‘But the tax collector,
standing at a distance,
“‘was not willing
even to raise his eyes heavenward
“‘but kept beating his chest, saying,
“‘“O God, be gracious to me, a sinner.”
“‘I tell you,
this man went down to his home
“‘and was proved more righteous
than that Pharisee.
“‘Because everyone
who exalts himself will be humiliated,
but whoever humbles himself
will be exalted.’”
So the Pharisee
was trying to impress Jehovah
with listing all of his so-called good deeds.
And it’s true that Jehovah
sees all the good we do,
but he also sees the motive behind it.
We never want to fool ourselves
that simply doing good things
that others can see
does not hide who we really are
from Jehovah.
The lesson for us
is that the good things that we do
are because we love Jehovah,
not because we want
praise or credit from others.
Knowing that Jehovah
sees all the good that we do
also makes us comfortable
with Jehovah as our Judge.
We’re all going to be judged by Jehovah.
Eventually, we’ll all be judged
as either worthy of life
or judged as worthy of death.
How comforting it is to know that Jehovah,
the one who’s going to make
that life-or-death decision,
is Someone who knows everything about us!
Like that judge we mentioned
in the illustration earlier,
you didn’t even have to testify.
The judge already knew
exactly what had happened.
Have you ever thought
after someone compliments you
or says you’re great
or you did something wonderful,
you thought to yourself, ‘Yeah,
but you really don’t know me that well’?
On the other hand,
there are people who know you really well.
They’ve known you for many years.
They’ve been through some good times
and some bad times with you.
Yet, they still love you.
And you think to yourself:
‘Wow, with all they know about me
‘and all that we’ve been through,
they still love me.
That’s amazing!’
Jehovah knows everything about us,
even if we’ve made mistakes or sins.
If we repent
and we continue to try to do what is right,
he still loves us.
Now, I have no doubt
that as you take some time
to meditate on our text for today,
you could come up with many more lessons
to apply in our day-to-day lives
by knowing that Jehovah is watching
and seeing all the good that we do.
You know, as we read earlier,
Jesus said that Jehovah
had not left him to himself,
and Jehovah has not left us to ourselves.
He is with us,
he sees us,
he knows us,
and he loves us for all the good that we do.
Jehovah is generous
in taking the time to see us,
not as a large group of worshippers,
but as unique individuals.
That’s how we see each
of our hardworking sisters too.
This is beautifully expressed
in this month’s music video.
I’d like to take this time
just to let you know
I am inspired by the faithfulness
you’ve always shown.
With pen and paper,
I put down these words
To help you understand
that we all can see your worth.
Whenever you find
that you’re hard on yourself,
I hope these words help.
We see you, sister,
Always a smile on your face.
You keep on going
Though you may doubt your precious place.
If you could only see yourself
through our eyes,
Then you would know how we see you.
We see you, sister.
You’re always looking out
to help behind the scenes
Without the hope of praise
for all you do for those in need.
The gifts you give in secret
have become known.
You’ve lifted others up
with so much love as they have grown.
You think it’s not much,
but there are so many times
You have touched our lives.
We see you, sister,
Always a smile on your face.
You keep on going
Though you may doubt your precious place.
If you could only see yourself
through our eyes,
Then you would know how we see you.
We see you, sister.
Jehovah’s greater
than your heart.
He sees the beautiful gem
that you are
As you work hard
to do your part.
We see you, sister,
Always a smile on your face.
You keep on going
Though you may doubt your precious place.
If you could only see yourself
through our eyes,
Then you would know how we see you.
We see you, sister.
Don’t lose that smile on your face.
Here you have found your precious place.
We see you, sister.
We see you,
we see you, sister.
We see you, sister.
Dear sisters, you are wonderful examples.
We appreciate all that you do.
We love you dearly.
In this month’s program,
we were encouraged
to imitate Jehovah’s generosity
by showing hospitality,
we uncovered a valuable lesson
about loyal love in the book of Hosea,
and we were reminded
that the hard work parents
put into training their children
produces strong faith and a sure hope.
For this month’s postcard,
we travel to French Guiana
in South America.
This is a lush, tropical land.
Well over 90 percent of French Guiana
is covered in forests
fed by heavy rains from December to July.
An extraordinary variety of plants,
mammals, birds,
and insects thrive here.
Beautiful diversity
is also seen in the people
and the many cultures,
among them Creole, French,
Surinamese, Brazilian, and South Asian.
This land became a French colony
in the 17th century.
For decades, thousands of convicts
were sentenced to forced labor
in places like Royale Island,
Devil’s Island, and Kourou.
Happily, those things are in the past.
Today, French Guiana remains
part of the French Republic,
though it’s more than
4,000 miles (6,000 km) from France.
Kourou is now the site
of a European Space Agency Center.
The Kingdom message
first reached French Guiana
when Brother Olga Laaland,
a zealous minister from Guadeloupe,
arrived in 1945.
Over the next two years,
he joyfully shared the good news in villages,
gold mines, and trading posts.
Though his stay was temporary,
he planted many seeds of truth.
Xavier and Sara Noll,
after graduating from Gilead in 1958,
went to help a small group
in the capital city, Cayenne,
which is said to be
the birthplace of cayenne pepper.
Soon Brother Noll
was conducting daily Bible studies
with Christian Bonecaze.
Within a short time,
Christian and his friends
became the first baptized Witnesses
in French Guiana.
Today, an average of 3,000 publishers
proclaim the good news.
Recently two milestones were reached:
a peak of 700 regular pioneers
and a record Memorial attendance
of more than 11,500
—nearly four times the number of publishers.
Although most of the population
is concentrated in and around Cayenne,
our brothers work hard
to find people everywhere.
This isn’t easy.
Only 40 percent
of the country’s roads are paved.
Some rivers have treacherous rapids,
bearing names like Saut Fracas,
or Crash Rapids,
and A Dieu Vať,
which translates into “That’s the End of It.”
Undaunted, publishers travel by boat
to reach people in distant territories.
Preaching is done in many languages,
including Palikur, Tyrewuju, and Hmong.
Three congregations serve the needs
of those who speak Saramaccan.
Seven congregations
and a remote translation office
support the French Guianese Creole field.
When our brothers gather for association,
they enjoy dancing,
singing, and playing music.
A famous local dish
called bouillon d’awara
can often be found on the table.
This is a stew
made of the pulp of awara fruit
and is typically mixed with smoked meats
and fresh seafood.
As we depart French Guiana,
we receive warm greetings
from our brothers and sisters
who meet at the Saint-Laurent
du Maroni Kingdom Hall
and from the remote translation office
in Cayenne.
They say to us, “Nou kontan zot!”
“We love you!”
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!